Jennytru live sim mode docs (#101)
statelyai/docs: docs/live-sim.mdx

---
title: Live Simulation Mode
---

import ThemedImage from '@theme/ThemedImage';
import useBaseUrl from '@docusaurus/useBaseUrl';

# Live Simulation Mode

> Forget screen sharing, there’s live simulation mode! Let’s say you’re working on the application logic and want a second opinion or to share your machine with your team mates, live simulation has made this process as easy as sharing a link. It is not necessary to take screenshots anymore because this feature will let all users with the specially generated link to access and discuss in real time the process of your machine.

Reviewer: This is a really fun opening that I think might work perfectly for a blog post. For docs, we want to imagine people are looking for information quickly; they want to get in, find out, get out. So I’d maybe try to make this as concise as possible and focus on what live simulation mode does. Something like (feel free to do differently!):

```suggestion
Live simulation mode helps you share your simulated machine with your team without screen sharing or screenshots. Share the generated live simulation link, and your team can view your simulation in real-time and even trigger events themselves.
```

> In order to use this collaborative feature, the user initiating the live simulation must be signed in. When looking at the Stately Studio, you’re able to switch between two views: Design mode and Simulate mode.

Reviewer: I’d probably move this into the how-to section below the `## Simulate your machine with others` heading as it’s a pre-requisite for being able to follow the step-by-step guide.

> In order to use this collaborative feature, the user initiating the live simulation must be signed in. When looking at the Stately Studio, you’re able to switch between two views: Design mode and Simulate mode.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

:::studio

Live simulation is a Pro feature of the Studio. [Check out the features on our Pro plan](/studio-pro-plan.mdx) or [upgrade to try the Pro plan with a 30-day free trial](https://stately.ai/registry/billing).

:::

## Simulate your machine with others

> 

Reviewer: This is moved down from the first section. And the info about live sim mode only being available in Simulate mode has been moved up from the tip further down.
```suggestion

You must be signed in to Stately Studio to initiate live simulation mode. 

There are two views in Stately Studio’s editor: **Design** mode and **Simulate** mode. **Live simulation** mode is available in **Simulate** mode.

```

> 1. Select the **Simulate** mode from the center of the visual editor. When in the **Simulate** mode, you’ll see your machine with the initial state turn the color blue. Blue means your machine is not currently being edited or shared, but you are simulating the logic flow of the current machine. In **Simulate** mode, this is where you can go through each state and transition to thoroughly review your logic.

Reviewer: We can make the steps easier to skim-read by making them as short as possible, and pulling out any supporting information into further tips and sentences. I think this supporting info would make a good tip.

We also need to bear in mind that not everyone can perceive colour, so we can’t rely on it as the only way to let a person know they’re in Simulate mode. So I might also mention that it’s highlighted:

```suggestion
1. Select the **Simulate** mode from the center of the visual editor. 

:::tip

When you’re in **Simulate** mode, your current state and next available events are highlighted in blue to simulate the flow of your machine. Click the available events to transition through states and review your logic.

:::
```

<p>
<ThemedImage
  alt="Simulate mode is selected in the center menu and now the machine can not be edited."
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/live-sim/live-sim-menu.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/live-sim/live-sim-menu-dm.png'),
  }}
/>
</p>

> 2. While in **Simulate** mode, you’ll notice a button **Live mode** on the bottom left corner. When clicking the **Live mode** button, you’ll have the options: 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
2. Use the **Live mode** button in the bottom left corner to reveal the **Live simulation** options. 
```

> - **Join a Live simulation** session

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
- **Join a Live simulation** session.
```

Reviewer: I wonder if we should split the instructions for Starting and Joining a live simulation into two step-by-step guides with their own headings so we can link to them independently?

Author: I can do this in a different PR. Good idea to separate the instructions to be more clear!

- **Start a live simulation** session.

> :::tip

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> The **Live mode** button will only be displayed when you are using the Simulate mode in the Studio. To know if you’re in the Simulate mode, you’ll see your states and transitions light up in blue color.

Reviewer: I’d remove this tip as we’ve covered this important information further up the page.

```suggestion
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 3. When selecting the option **Start a live simulation**, you’ll notice the machine is orange. Then, the bottom left corner will show **Copy link** or **Stop** buttons, along with a 6 character code (for example: 3KNYII). 

Reviewer: Emphasising the panel first, as that’s the more visually-(and otherwise) accessible identifier for live simulation mode.

Also ordering the description of the panel in the order in which the options appear.

```suggestion
3. Choose **Start a live simulation** to start simulation your machine.

When your machine is in live simulation mode, the **Live simulation panel** will display in the bottom left corner with a six-character unique code (for example: 3KNYII) along with **Copy link** and **Stop** buttons. The highlighted current state and next events will also be highlighted in orange.
```

> You can share your machine when in Live simulation mode by selecting the option **copy link** and then a modal will pop up to confirm the link was copied to your clipboard. Go ahead and share that link to other participants! 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
You can share your machine when in Live simulation mode by selecting the option **copy link** and then a toast will pop up to confirm the link was copied to your clipboard. Go ahead and share that link to other participants! 
```

The link can also be accessed by users who are not logged in to the Studio.

<p>(TODO:add screenshot here)
<ThemedImage
  alt="When selecting Start a live simulation, you are actively sharing the machine and others can access the same simulation with a custom generated link."
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/live-sim/live-sim-start.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/live-sim/live-sim-start-dm.png'),
  }}
/>
</p>

> ::: tip

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
:::tip
```

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

To recognize you’re in a Live simulation mode, you’ll notice the blue states have now transitioned to orange.

> 

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> :::

Reviewer: ```suggestion
```

> 4. When selecting the option **Join a Live simulation**, you’ll be prompted to enter a code to reference which machine simulation session you’ll be joining.

Reviewer: I reckon we could split this under its own heading, repeating the first steps in the step-by-step guide as above so we can link to each way of using live simulation mode independently…

```suggestion
4. When selecting the option **Join a Live simulation**, you’ll be prompted to enter a code to reference which machine simulation session you’ll be joining.
```

> 4. When selecting the option **Join a Live simulation**, you’ll be prompted to enter a code to reference which machine simulation session you’ll be joining.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
4. Choose **Join a Live simulation** to join an existing live simulation mode session.
5. Enter the unique session mode code you’ve been provided.
```

> If you were given a link to join the Live simulation session, you would only need to copy and paste that link into your browser.

Reviewer: Maybe we could even split the instructions on how to join an existing live simulation mode session into two sections; one section for joining with a code, one section for joining with a URL?

The two buttons that pop up are to **Cancel** or **Join**, when you have joined a Live simulation session. 

<p>
<ThemedImage
  alt="Joining a Live simulation session will all you to select the states or watch them transition to other states with others in the session."
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/live-sim/live-sim-join.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/live-sim/live-sim-join-dm.png'),
  }}
/>
</p>

> ### Benefits

Reviewer: I reckon we keep this whole benefits section for the blog post. It’s really great stuff, but may not be necessary for knowing how to use the feature itself. What do you think?

With Live Simulation mode, each user with the machine link can provide valuable feedback on how the machine is accurately representing the logic or is missing some states that can be easily added in using the Design mode of the Studio.

<p>
<ThemedImage
  alt="Two views of the Studio, left is the user sharing the Live simualtion and right is the user who joins the Live simulation."
  sources={{
    light: useBaseUrl('/live-sim/live-sim-side-by-side.png'),
    dark: useBaseUrl('/live-sim/live-sim-side-by-side.png'),
  }}
/>
</p>

Testing your application logic, collaboratively is very powerful.
Each participant is able to interact with the machine, while other members with the shared link are able to see in real time, which part of the machine is being discussed in detail. With scrensharing, we risk having low quality images, small fonts, or pixelated text, and only one user has control over the machine at a time. Live Simulation mode is an easy solution for all of your team, whether they have a technical background or not. 

> Live Simulation mode is just the beginning or our collaborative features. If you have any ideas, suggestions, or feedback, please submit them to feedback.stately.ai 

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
Live Simulation mode is just the beginning or our collaborative features. If you have any ideas, suggestions, or feedback, please submit them to [feedback.stately.ai](https://feedback.stately.ai/) 
```

> Happy Modeling!

Reviewer 2: This last section beginning with "Live Simulation mode is just the beginning or our collaborative features" and ending here with "Happy Modeling" is great, but to me, it feels a bit out of place in the documentation. It would be great in the blog post to go with this though. What do you think?

Reviewer: Agreed. We don’t really need to summarise docs in the same ways as blog posts. But we should totally keep this for the blog post!
